Capstone 2 Proposal


1. For this Capstone project, I plan to use the PERN stack:
   1. PostgreSQL - Object-Relational Database
   2. Express - Back-End Framework
   3. React - Front-End Framework/Library
   4. Node.js - JavaScript runtime environment
2. This time, I will be a bit more focused on the front-end UI; however, in the end, I feel like this project will be an evenly focused full-stack application.
3. This will strictly be a website. For now… perhaps a mobile version can be arranged sometime in the future.
4. My goal for this project is to create an easy-to-navigate website that gives the visitor the ability to search their upcoming destination and learn of their particular location’s travel “need-to-knows”, such as: health & vaccines, weather, visa requirements, currency, electric sockets, and language.
5. I think the demographic of users visiting my site will vary. They could be children (who are more “tech savvy” than their parents), pre-teens looking to spend a weekend at the coast, young adults wanting to travel the world, or retirees searching for their next hot spot.
6. The API I plan on using is https://travelbriefing.org/api
7. Brief outline of approach to creating my project:
   1. Right now, my database schema only consists of “users”
   2. One thing I’m concerned with my API is whether the information is accurate. I won’t know until I test the endpoint. The API website is a one-pager with limited information, so I’m hoping that means it’s very easy to use
   3. Sensitive information I’ll need to secure would include the email and password of the user
   4. Functionality for now includes ability signup/login and search for a specific location and view its respective travel information. Planning to implement OAuth to signup/login functionality, as well as adding autocomplete to the search bar
   5. Any visitor can search for and view location information, but if you signup/login (using OAuth), you can save the information/bookmark it for later (hoping to add this functionality).
   6. At this time, my site is fairly simple functionality-wise. I have a few stretch goals, including:
      1. A possible note-adding feature
      2. Sending information from site to user email or phone
      3. Sharing information with other users